DOC: known issue about pandas Series multiplication (#15904)
astropy/astropy: docs/known_issues.rst

See: https://github.com/astropy/astropy/issues/7582

Quantities Lose Their Units with Operations on pandas.Series
------------------------------------------------------------

Quantities may work with certain operations on `~pandas.Series` but
this behaviour is not tested. Quantities are subclassed from ``numpy``'s `~numpy.ndarray`
and they do not behave same as `~pandas.Series` objects.
For example one know issue is that multiplying a `~pandas.Series` object
with a unit will *not* return a ``Quantity`` object. It will return a `~pandas.Series`
object without any unit::

   >>> import pandas as pd
   >>> import astropy.units as u
   >>> a = pd.Series([1., 2., 3.])
   >>> a * u.m
   0    1.0
   1    2.0
   2    3.0
   dtype: float64

One way around this is to use the in-place shift operator::

   >>> a << u.m
   <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>

But this is fragile as this may stop working in future versions of

> pandas if they decide to override the dunder methods.

Reviewer: Maybe add: 
```
What should be secure, though, is to initialize the |Quantity| directly::
    >>> u.Quantity(a, u.m)
    <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>
```

See: https://github.com/astropy/astropy/issues/7582

> Quantities Lose Their Units with Operations on pandas.Series
> ------------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: This might be true, but there are no examples about that. A title that would actually match the text would be
```suggestion
Multiplying a `pandas.Series` with an `~astropy.units.Unit` does not produce a |Quantity|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Quantities may work with certain operations on `~pandas.Series` but
this behaviour is not tested. Quantities are subclassed from ``numpy``'s `~numpy.ndarray`

> and they do not behave same as `~pandas.Series` objects.

Reviewer 2: `Quantity` is indeed a subclass of `ndarray`, but that's not relevant here.

> For example one know issue is that multiplying a `~pandas.Series` object
> with a unit will *not* return a ``Quantity`` object. It will return a `~pandas.Series`
> object without any unit::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, multiplying a `~pandas.Series` instance
with a unit will *not* return a |Quantity|. It will return a `~pandas.Series`
object without any unit::
```

>    >>> import pandas as pd # doctest: +SKIP
>    >>> import astropy.units as u # doctest: +SKIP
>    >>> a = pd.Series([1., 2., 3.]) # doctest: +SKIP
>    >>> a * u.m # doctest: +SKIP

Reviewer 2: Do run the tests is possible. If the test fails with `pandas` 1.4 then use
```suggestion
.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

   >>> import pandas as pd # doctest: +SKIP
   >>> import astropy.units as u # doctest: +SKIP
   >>> a = pd.Series([1., 2., 3.]) # doctest: +SKIP
   >>> a * u.m # doctest: +SKIP
```
Also, if different versions of `pandas` produce different outcomes then it's important to document that, so we might need multiple sets of tests.

Author: Pandas 1.4 should be dropped according to [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/), I'm not sure if we should write specific docs for that? `olddeps` should probably drop pandas 1.4 soon?

Reviewer 2: Dropping support for `pandas` 1.4 sounds like a good idea, but the pull request doing that should be merged first.

Author: Sounds good, created https://github.com/astropy/astropy/pull/16023

   0    1.0
   1    2.0
   2    3.0
   dtype: float64

One way around this is to use the in-place shift operator::

   >>> a << u.m # doctest: +SKIP

>    <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>

Reviewer 2: The text mentions in-place left shift operator (`<<=`), but the example uses the left shift operator (`<<`). It would be best to demonstrate both.

But this is fragile as this may stop working in future versions of

> pandas if they decide to override the dunder methods. What should be

Reviewer 2: If we run doctests here with the development or latest version of `pandas` then we don't need to worry about this happening without us noticing.

Author: True, but I guess it's still nice to document the "right" way to initialize a quantity with a pandas object?

Reviewer 2: I don't really know what to think of this sentence. By providing the example we are recommending using the shift operators. But the text is saying they are fragile and it's best not to use them. We shouldn't be making mixed statements like this.

Reviewer: Hmm, @eerovaher, good point. I think it may still be OK to list the operator, but let's put `u.Quantity` first. I.e., something like,
```
To avoid this, best is just to initialize as a `Quantity`,

   >>> u.Quantity(a, u.m)
...
Note that the overrides pandas provides are not complete, and
as a consequence, using the (in-place) shift operator does work,
    >>> a << u.m
...
But this ...
```

Author: I like @mhvk suggestion. The reason I do think it makes sense to keep some docs about this fragile behavior is it seems like users are trying to use this today and they are surprised it works for some operations and it doesn't for some. The fragile behavior seems to stems from the user assumption that numpy array and pandas series should work similarly (?). 

Yes we can tell them to just use `u.Quantity(a, u.m)` directly but maybe it's nice to also explain why their expectation (Series ~ ndarray) doesn't work?

> secure, though, is to initialize the ``Quantity`` directly::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
secure, though, is to initialize the |Quantity| directly::
```

See: https://github.com/astropy/astropy/issues/7582

Multiplying a `pandas.Series` with an `~astropy.units.Unit` does not produce a |Quantity|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quantities may work with certain operations on `~pandas.Series` but
this behaviour is not tested.
For example, multiplying a `~pandas.Series` instance
with a unit will *not* return a |Quantity|. It will return a `~pandas.Series`
object without any unit::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

   >>> import pandas as pd
   >>> import astropy.units as u
   >>> a = pd.Series([1., 2., 3.])
   >>> a * u.m
   0    1.0
   1    2.0
   2    3.0
   dtype: float64

One way around this is to use the in-place shift or shift operator::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

   >>> a << u.m
   <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>
   >>> a <<= u.m
   >>> a
   <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>

But this is fragile as this may stop working in future versions of
pandas if they decide to override the dunder methods. What should be
secure, though, is to initialize the |Quantity| directly::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

>     >>> u.Quantity(a, u.m)

Reviewer 2: The previous example converted `a` to a `Quantity`, so `pandas` is not involved here at all.

See: https://github.com/astropy/astropy/issues/7582

Multiplying a `pandas.Series` with an `~astropy.units.Unit` does not produce a |Quantity|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quantities may work with certain operations on `~pandas.Series` but
this behaviour is not tested.
For example, multiplying a `~pandas.Series` instance
with a unit will *not* return a |Quantity|. It will return a `~pandas.Series`
object without any unit::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

   >>> import pandas as pd
   >>> import astropy.units as u
   >>> a = pd.Series([1., 2., 3.])
   >>> a * u.m
   0    1.0
   1    2.0
   2    3.0
   dtype: float64

To avoid this, it is best to initialize the |Quantity| directly::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

    >>> u.Quantity(a, u.m)
    <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>

Note that the overrides pandas provides are not complete, and
as a consequence, using the (in-place) shift operator does work::

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

>    >>> a << u.m
>    <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>

Reviewer 2: Would this be clearer ?
```suggestion
   >>> b = a << u.m
   >>> b
   <Quantity [1., 2., 3.] m>
```

See: https://github.com/astropy/astropy/issues/7582

Multiplying a `pandas.Series` with an `~astropy.units.Unit` does not produce a |Quantity|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quantities may work with certain operations on `~pandas.Series` but
this behaviour is not tested.
For example, multiplying a `~pandas.Series` instance
with a unit will *not* return a |Quantity|. It will return a `~pandas.Series`

> object without any unit::
> 
> .. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5

Reviewer 2: The `doctest-requires` instructions are appearing in the rendered documentation.
```suggestion
object without any unit:

.. doctest-requires:: pandas>=1.5
```
I'm only highlighting it here, but the others need to be edited too.
